# Digital-Signal-processing-IOT-based-project
Using ECR module for getting data from vibrational and humidity sensor connected to home appliances
In your course of Embedded System you have already learnt how to develop sensors based systems to collect the data. In this project you will be building upon that project and works towards a complete system that can be used to process and analyze the digital data coming from different sensors in a single accumulated platform.  Whenever we deploy IOT based sensors in the an industry that wants to shift towards Industry 4.0, one of the biggest problem faced by in the industry is to monitor the working/functionality of the machines on the shopfloor. This is very much required to monitor the working time, scheduling different activities of the shopfloor, making predictions for the production time etc. The type of sensors that can be put on a machine working on a shopfloor of a typical industry can be: -	Current sensor – to monitor the running time of the machine -	Vibration sensor – to monitor the quality of running of the machine -	Temperature sensors – to monitor the ambient temperature or inside temperature -	Humidity sensors – to monitor the working environment   Goals: Your major goal is the develop a monitoring system that you can deploy in your home to monitor the working of any of the electrical appliances of your choice. Some use cases can be: -	Deploy sensors on water pump -	Deploy sensors on the washing machine -	Deploy sensors on the fridge …. -	Deploy sensors on the air conditioner  Tasks: There are three parts of the complete project: 1.	Front End: You have use the ThingSpeak platform which is an IOT analytics platform service that allows you to visualize, aggregate and analyze the live data. 2.	Sensors: You can use any number of sensors that you wish to deploy. However, you have to use vibration sensor (atleast) and connect it through a controller to the front end.   3.	Communication Protocols: There are specific protocols that have been developed for the communication of IOT devices. You have to search for these protocols use them in your proect.  4.	Data Pre-Processing: The data that is collected is inherently noisy. You will have to analyze the acquired signal for applying appropriate filters to remove the noise from the signal. The second part of the data pre-processing is to analyze the acquired signal in three different domains: -	Time domain -	Frequency domain -	Wavelet domain 5.	Feature Extraction: You have to search for statistical features. There are around 30 different statistical features that you can extract from a signal (search Wikipedia for the list of signals). You have to extract these features from all three different transformed signals before you do the data analysis.  6.	Data Analysis You have to perform analysis on the data that you have collected to make the front end for extracting meaningful information. You can come up with as many use cases as you can think of. One of the use case can be to analyze the health of the machine using the vibration sensor 
